---
layout: post
title: "A Pivot from Programming"
date: 2025-02-27
summary: "I reflect on my goals and place as a human in this world and how I have contended with various pressures to become something recognizable to others but not my own self. I talk about my desire to do data science but from my math roots and passion for social change rather than forcing myself to learn skills just for an income and career stability. I talk about my value as a person and not something replicable by artificial intelligence."
categories: blog
---


### My Initial Goals

I started this project to find a fun way to learn coding more seriously while I am unemployed. I have taken some courses in university and learned various programming languages to do research work and data management work, but I have not personally pursued it outside of work before. I started with the idea of creating a simple website layout because it would make me learn some HTML and CSS and how web design looks on the back end. Then, I hoped to add some buttons and forms on the site using a scripting language such as JavaScript. Lastly, I wanted to take this project outside of a website and make some small desktop applications with some animated features and the like. 

I am a very goal oriented person, so if I am given an assignment with no purpose, I lose motivation quickly. That is not to say that I cannot commit myself to work beyond this realm of "purpose" but it at the very least should feel like something I am somewhat capable of doing and responsible for. For the above reason, most of my proposed projects for myself have been related to tools and applications I could personally use in my life or provide for others (e.g. portfolio, blog, to-do list games, decision maker, trackers). I took a lot of inspiration from tools I already know exist but still have some accessibility limitations or missing features that I feel like personally would have connected with my brain and way of thinking more. In this process, I could learn about things that already exist and how to build upon them from my own perspectives. This gives me experience learning how to not only produce things but alter them or adjust them for different purposes and people. 

Ultimately, I was excited about the idea of expanding on skills I had to fill in the gaps in my programming knowledge that always made me feel like I could not do data science the "right" or most efficient way. However, in the process, I think I got a little lost in my motivations and became depressed. The projects were fun ideas, but they didn't feel right because they weren't progressing what I thought mattered (even though I tried to fight it every day... I am not a fan of grind culture). Despite all my ambitions, I still feared that I would not find employment in time and my degree (and years of thinking hard in school) would lose value with time, so I kept seeking the epiphany moment where I could progress my skills to find employment through these side hobbies. Of course, I did not and should not expect to find it here, because I did not begin it with the idea of making profit or something out of it besides personal use. 

### Emotional Downturn and Looking Forward

The reality of unemployment sunk in again, as well as my feelings of isolation in the experience. I feel like I am just decaying mentally and emotionally, stretching myself a little to write another cover letter and tweak my resume once more just to get ghosted for the 50th time. Are employers even really hiring or am I just sending my references to bots trying to replicate human desperation for a place in society? I felt like all the years I spent in undergrad was amounting to nothing, as I could feel my critical thinking skills fade away without regular practice and exposure. To be honest, if I were to be tested on my statistics and R knowledge today, I don't know if I would be prepared enough to do the jobs I was once confident in doing. I wish I could just be given an opportunity to put myself forth for something deeply meaningful and use my brain the way that I used to be able to do so freely and with so much purpose. I am confident in my work ethic and my passion for social justice work; even if I may not have the immediate skills, I will do anything in my power to learn and exert myself to its limits. However, right now, I am not confident in my ability to will interest in new things and continue developing skills endlessly with no prospects or clear paths to take on in my future.

I know that many people are unemployed at the moment while feeling like they have so much to offer to the world that is yet to be appreciated. I know it is a little selfish to dwell on my own lack of clear opportunities while not actively seeking them, but I also feel like the job search is such a gamble that I would rather bank on myself, which is not built from just the luck of finding the right opportunity at the right time. I want to believe that that will come naturally when I'm ready for it. I think I will still keep looking for jobs, but I will not agonize about the closed doors every single day. I just hope that I am received with grace soon enough. 

It only hurts more that my father is thinking of retiring soon and my parents want me in a comfortable place before then so they can retire in peace. I always wanted to work hard enough to provide my parents enough comfort to retire my parents myself. At the very least, I wanted to make enough to give them the leisure to experience the world for once. I know I am lucky to have parents who have already done the hard work for me to give me a home to return to no matter what my financial circumstances are. I know I am lucky to have parents who love me unconditionally and have patience for me (though sometimes it wavers under external pressure). I know I am fortunate to have a support network to keep pushing me forward on hard days. Still, I sometimes mourn the reality I did not grow up in a financially comfortable household where we learned to embrace the human experience through and through. Growing up, any medical problem would throw our entire household in jeopardy, and I could never imagine how I could hold my elderly parents up on my own. Now, it depresses me that my parents have only known work their entire lives and can't seem to break away from the cycle. Every time we have family time, my mother still thinks of home and the need to return to it to make sure everything is still there the way we left it. I don't know how to live with that anxiety, and it paralyzes me every day that I sit idly waiting for something to come so that I could afford to live a little more freely without guilt again. I am so privileged to even have the philosophy that life should be more than that --- my parents never had the choice to imagine that level of freedom. 

These days, they are trying to make them something tangible for us. My mother has more often encouraged me to travel more often and similarly supported my sister to follow suit. She has sometimes expressed shame for not giving us three an inheritance like my other cousins who each have a house to their name. I hope that my efforts now and long into the future can communicate to her that she has already done more than anyone could ask for. The simple things have made me who I am and continually taught me to invest in people and care and nourishment beyond anything else in this material, temporary world.

I don't mean to ramble on as if life has been without good news. My sister will be interning in Vietnam this summer and studying abroad in South Korea in the fall. I know she always wanted to visit Korea and expose herself to the language and culture directly after studying Korean for years, so I am elated that she has been given the opportunity to do so in a study abroad program that makes travel and long-term immersion affordable. Studying abroad in Copenhagen was a dream come true for me, and I learned so much about a region in the world that I didn't previously appreciate before. I hope she finds the same level of joy in traversing new landscapes as I did and I hope she lets herself indulge in all the little things, even though we grew up being so focused on what's ahead we would often neglect to stop and look around a bit. 

For now, while I wait to see how my sister's adventures go, I want to rethink my process for "progressing" in life toward the direction I want to go. I want to find a fulfilling job that aligns with my principles. I don't want to settle for a job just because of its benefits. Maybe it is naive, but I want to find a job that upholds my core values as a person. I want a job that at its core is based on respect for others and the world we live in (this meaning the life that exists beyond humanity). I want to work beyond the realm of exploitation and work toward something that gives back to the world and brings others energy and space to thrive. I feel like I have so much to learn and so much to offer in that realm if I focus my efforts toward that goal of finding a role in the world that heals. On that note, I think I will pivot away from updating the website too much. Perhaps I may customize it a little more and add some features that improve the quality of navigating all my rambling, but the blog will be my biggest investment for now. I may still do some little side quests where I make little apps for my loved ones (I will update the blog with information on those apps and feature them on my currently not created projects page) but for now I want to put this to rest. Instead, I want to focus on cementing my values and my approach to societal problems.

### The Pivot: Programming as Second Priority?

The reality is, I enjoy programming as a complement to mathematics (my deepest interest) and its ability to uncover patterns in the real world. I've always wanted to learn programming so that I could do statistical tests more easily and make sense of the world in numbers (and then contextualize them in the real, social world given my social science background). Learning programming on its own without the social work felt soulless and felt like a distraction from my lifelong goals to establish myself in the policy world and make a difference for my community members. I want to change gears and work more on establishing my domain knowledge of subjects and theory. I have always loved theory but ended up sidelining it because I was so focused on proving my worth to people to employ me. I think that is one of my biggest mistakes in life, because now I know of many case studies and problems in the world, but I have not studied enough to trace the history and development of said issues and isolate the root causes in a non-teleological way. Frankly, I feel strongly about many issues, but I don't know enough about them to know how to approach solving them so ultimately, even if I want to contribute to change, I will only present confusion due to my own ignorance. Therefore, I now want to focus on reading more books in the social sciences and relearning statistics and complementing that work with statistical ethical stewardship so that I can place myself on a plane of socially responsible and informed data science work. Data is context, and our findings can be motivated in many ways by our individual biases, and I want to learn how to uncover truths without totally obscuring reality with projections of statistics and mathematics. Though initially it will feel scary to buy books out of pocket for the first time in a while and learn that way, I think it will be worthwhile. Some of my favorite memories of college was having those amazing discoveries reading through the lifelong work of so many academics and theorists, and I want to experience that again and invite them in to guide my forward to becoming the responsible human I want to be.

By the end of my life, I want to become an expert in at least one social problem (though I know they are all deeply entangled and mastery of one subject requires deep knowledge of all the related subjects), whether that be environmentalism, immigration policy and advocacy, or the criminal justice system and the perpetuation of prejudice and class stratification in our governmental systems. I want to be able to learn so much through my experiences that I can contribute at least one piece of knowledge to be explored in future generations at the end of my life. I absolutely loved working on and thinking through my senior thesis in university, but I know I did not even scratch the surface of existing research on the subjects that I explored nor did I present anything fundamentally new. If anything, my discoveries were simply a synthesis of so many other amazing people's work in one place. I want to join these folks in thinking and in plotting a new world where we can live freely and with a true sense of adventure. 

I don't want to live regretting how I spend my days anymore. It has been so hard to get up in the morning and start something, but I have to remember why it is that I am stressed out in the first place. It is not my inherent lack of value or contribution to this world... it is the weight of the possibilities I have to take that are waiting for me to take the leap toward. I will try to take that leap, though it may be small and very humbling, until I end up where I want to be as a person and as a caregiver in this world. I hope you will continue to follow along with me on this journey as I learn continually throughout my life how to be a better, more conscientious human. 

*Side Note: I was about to write caretaker, but it is making me wonder now. Why are caretaker and caregiver almost synonymous terms but they supposedly "give" and "take" care? Why is caretaker a much more formal term for a nurturing relationship where there are clear boundaries, whereas caregiving is fundamentally encapsulated and defined by love and empowerment?*