---
layout: post
title: Hello World
date: 2025-09-13
summary: I revisit blogging as something I want to utilize to hold myself accountable to regular self-reflection and checking my own progress towards becoming the person I want to be, both in society and in community with those I love. I discuss my goals with the blog and this website at large, how I want to approach improving the aesthetics and usability for readers, and make it a space I am proud of even though I have no audience I intend to share my thoughts with.
categories: blog
tags: reflection
---

### Blogging as Part of My Purpose

As the summary states, I want to use this blog, and this space I created half a year ago, as a place to intentionally reflect and look back on my life, my actions, and what I hope to accomplish in life. I think it is a key part of holding myself accountable to my purpose and better understanding how my purpose manifests across my relationships and the spaces that I exist within. Looking back and looking at the present moment is what I forget to do first when I fall into a rut. I believe it is a part of the system to keep us pushing forward, grinding, telling us to dream of what is possible so that we forget that dreams come true with the small, guided efforts and decisions we take at each present moment to do what's right for ourselves and those around us. That is not to say that I think dreaming about the future is inappropriate --- I do think there is value in dreaming and allowing our dreams to guide our imaginations of what is possible rather than being restricted by the boundaries laid out by power structures before us. Rather, I believe there is equal value in being deeply connected to the present moment and feeling how it weighs on our bones so that we can nurture what hurts and heal. I think we were all born into a flawed world and become deeply flawed within its confines. In turn, I think there is a lot of healing and self-reflection we have to undertake in order to actually change for the better. Not all change is good if not purposeful. 

I want to use this blog to write out my thoughts and intentionally correct what I must. I want to use this blog to stay present with myself and how I am growing whether it be in the right or wrong direction according to the praxes I want to commit myself to. I also want my blogs to be a log of my growth so that those like and unlike me can reference the way I as a human develop so that we may learn what works and doesn't work together. 

Finally, I hope to use this blog to also link my efforts to the resources that guide me so that we can all learn together. I think learning is one of the most valuable endeavors we can take throughout life. I believe that when one stops learning, that is when life has truly come to a pause. Therefore, I want to use this website to organize my reading lists and hold myself to reading as often as I can and collecting my thoughts on all of them in one place. I tend to take a lot of notes and think deeply but struggle to organize all of my notes consistently in one place. Thereafter, I think my principles can have a lot of holes in them that I need to continue to fill and strengthen in order to be the holistic person I want to be. I don't want to lose my own thoughts and forget to collect them when they are so valuable to me and who I am. I hope it may be appreciated by those around me as well, as we all learn how to live a little better each day in unison with each other despite the borders that may divide us.

### The State of my Mind 

I have gone through all five stages of grief since my last blog post, not because I have experienced any terrible loss, but because I have endured various emotional stages in the process of finding a place for myself in life and finding contentment in my existence as it is. I think as it usually goes, I have found peace in acceptance and understanding that my path will be my path so long as I walk it, and I don't need to fully know what I am owning nor what I will own (or owe) in the future to anyone who walks alongside me. I think it has been a deep process of unraveling the layers of self-worth that I have adopted in order to come to terms with many ideas, both external and internal, about myself and what I want to be (or once perceived as allowed to be) that I have learned, re-learned, and outright discarded. 

Growing up in a multigenerational immigrant household, I've learned that my life is bound to those that come before me, in service and in my sense of self. Therefore, I must be responsible for all my actions, as well as those who come after me, in order to respect the dignity of those who raised and nurtured me. I think on the outset, this connectedness has been grounding for me and taught me to value the relationships I am born with as well as those I have chosen over the years. At the same time, it has come with a sense of responsibility that has sometimes come at my own expense, and I have been learning how to reckon with this weight on my shoulders so that I can carry what I can with grace, and respectfully leave some expectations behind so that it doesn't crush my soul entirely. I don't think that my life should or can be a stain on my parents, and I don't feel that I should be responsible for responding to malicious actors who wish to tear my parents down through my lived experiences (which only I can speak to and rightfully own) and lack of satisfactory achievements and qualities (according to them). What I will hold myself responsible to in the future is appreciating what I have instead of chasing what I think I deserve. There are many things I am privileged to have, including the love between my friends and family, that I have taken for granted. I wrote about presencing in my college papers but frankly that is what I fail at first whenever I feel weighed down by the world. Each and every time, my healing comes from being present with the world and its inhabitants around me and understanding that I am a part of a whole such that, no matter how my path individually goes, I am both infinitely insignificant and infinitely foundational to its growth. That may sound contradictory, but I think it makes a lot of sense. No material value I gather will be as valuable as others make it to be, but the love (which grounds my conviction) that I can share with others will be infinitely valuable in creating spaces for all people to breathe and take in the world comfortably. Each time I make an effort to speak with those around me, I am contributing to discourse that can be part of the fundamental shift towards systems of care over systems of exploitation in our relationship with one another and the earth we are so blessed to live on. 

I felt this deeply when I visited Vietnam for the first time just a month ago and met my dad's side of the family for the first time. **don't forget to expand on this when I have time...**
1. thinking about co thanh, generosity, what love looks like across cultures
2. language
3. the 'new' world
4. the initial discomfort, ideological differences and feelings of (in)familiarity

Ultimately, I don't want my reflection to sound too self-congratulatory or celebrating some kind of dissonance/complacency with the reality of the world around me because that is not my purpose nor my belief. I believe there is a lot for me to lock in on, and a lot of things I have to genuinely work towards in order to be the community member I wish to be for those around me. At the same time, I just want to continue to remind myself, as well as my peers and colleagues, that making space to rest and to be weak is a part of the process. I think when we hold such strong convictions and condemnation in our hearts, we sometimes are expected by others (oftentimes those who do not have our interests in mind) and in turn expect ourselves to always be big and strong in the face of adversity, conflict, and challenge no matter what. Contrarily, I think it is equally reasonable to be lost, confused, and challenged by the issues we face every day and make a real effort to untangle complex issues both global and internal. 

As simple as it is to say that we need to be in community with one another to effectively resist these institutions and systems of oppression, it is genuinely difficult to be in community while being deeply sensitive to the nuances of collective care, responsibility, and growth. It is easy to manifest an equally harmful alternative while seeking to untangle complex, interconnected issues that touch all aspects of our lives, from the dullness in our bones to the instability of the ground under our feet and the droughts in the face of hunger and thirst. It is easy to see past each other and the intricacies of our lived struggles and call our lived experiences "small" or "unsubstantial" compared to the extreme violence multiply marginalized communities face every day. Still, we cannot forget that all forms of violence, big and small, culminate into the same thing. It is repression, erasure, and selective denial of humanity. It is extraction, exploitation, and colonization. Violence is violence, and it eats at us in an effort to suppress our ability to imagine anything better than what we have now. Even little things become large when they are cemented into the framework for how we approach the world from thereon --- harm and violence manifests in the physical body and its adaptations for survival, as well as the psychological structure we have for understanding what is acceptable, normal, and otherwise. It is so easy to become corrupt despite our good intentions.

I want to use this space to think and move with intention and have space for self-evaluation and criticism to be as aligned with my values and hopes for the future as I can. I slip up a lot, and I can be uninformed or ignorant about many key moments in life where I needed to do the extra work to be engaged and knowledgeable and active within my communities. This blog will hopefully mark those moments so that I can look back and improve rather than shelving those mistakes under the rubble to inevitably mess up again and again without improvement. 

### Notes on What I Hope to Add in the Near Future

I will adjust the aesthetics of this blog eventually, but it is no longer a priority to me like it was before when I was focused on utilizing the blog as a skill-building exercise. Instead, I want to add tools and organize my site in order to make it easiest to navigate as a place for learning and reflection. Therefore, I want to add tags as soon as possible, as well as adding subsections to blogs and other parts of the site to have external links and resources readily available for myself and anyone interested. I also plan on revisiting my old blogs often and fleshing them out because sometimes I write many thoughts without giving myself the due time to think them all through as much as I would like to (I am often chasing my thoughts in fear of losing them and just rambling for ages until I figure out what my thesis actually is). Therefore, I will also add edit logs so that it is clear when I first wrote the post and how often it has been edited and how so (maybe color coding new additions if it doesn't affect readability??). 

Additionally, I want to add more creative elements to my writing because I am someone who has learned from and been inspired by all forms of media. Specifically, I am most drawn to poetry, art, and music and I hope to be able to bring that forward in future editions so that everything is more interwoven (not just walls of texts, but other explorations of my thoughts and what I hope to do). 

I hope the future editions of this website will be something lovely to look back on, and a source of genuine growth for me and anyone around me. Who knows though. It might just start and end within a month (hopefully not). Best wishes until then.

#### To-Do List for Self

- [x] Add tags
- [ ] Create a page for reading lists
- [ ] Incorporate and have discourse with other creative outlets, references in my posts (other bloggers, books, music, art, etc) 
- [x] Add edit logs
- [ ] Clean up links for usability... improve searchability of certain resources


*last edited: september 15th, 2025*
*edit log:*
- *september 15th, 2025: grammar edits, expansion on ideas about violence and accountability, extra notes on ideas to explore about returning to Vietnam aka the "homeland" and experiencing parts of home that were so infamiliar but a part of me now*